Israel says it is moving toward the next
stage of its offensive against Gaza
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu
rallies troops on the border saying more
is coming in the campaign against Hamas
the military says it is preparing to
attack Gaza by land sea and air to
destroy the group a week after it
carried out a terror attack in Israel
and took more than a 100 people hostage
Israeli air strikes pounded Targets in
Gaza overnight ahead of the anticipated
ground assault
the World Health Organization says an
Israeli order forcing people to evacuate
from hospitals in Northern Gaza is a
death sentence Israeli officials say
there are two safe routes for families
to relocate south of the W gazi Gaza
Wetlands that run across the territory
many displaced gazans have taken Refuge
at United Nations schools in southern
Gaza food water and medical supplies are
running low
Israel's military says it has been
attacking targets it believes are linked
to Hamas but Hamas says more than 70
civilians were killed in an air strike
on one of the
highways the morg at gaza's alifa
hospital is
overflowing workers stack corpses in the
parking lot outside bodies are coming in
faster than relatives can claim them and
the hospital has run out of SP space for
the
remains Israel's bombing campaign on the
territory of 2.3 million has leveled
entire neighborhoods killing more than
2,000 Palestinians and wounding many
more some of the injured are being
treated in hospital
corridors many of them are
children a shortage of beds medical
supplies and power outages have left
hospitals in the north struggling to
cope the World Health Organization says
forcing the critically ill to move South
amounts to a death
sentence It also says the evacuation
order has left exhausted health workers
facing a choice between abandoning
patience or staying behind and putting
their own lives at
risk Israel's evacuation order means the
clinic became a shelter for more than
35,000
refugees many have set up makeshift
tents in the front of the building using
carpets curtains and whatever they could
Salvage from their
homes we received messages on our phones
so we left quickly we came here to the
hospital but the place is more crowded
than the schools everyone came here
there are no bathrooms no food no water
nobody cares about us
I was displaced with my family 16 of us
we go from place to place may God help
us the UN is calling on Israel to
immediately reverse the evacuation
order but for countless garans it's
already too
late our correspondent Tanya Kramer is
in ashad southern Israel near the Gaza
border you told us more about the
situation on the
ground well right here now in southern
Israel it's quiet this morning but it's
also a 10's morning because of course
everybody here also is waiting what's
happening next a lot of the towns and
Villages and kibuts around the the the
Gaza border area have been evacuated as
well a lot of people are here also on
the Move staying with relatives further
up north um last night there has been uh
have been several rocket barges into
Israel also to ashot and also to Tel
Aviv but as you said as well the air
strikes and the bombing bombardments of
Gaza also continuing at this time are
indications any clearer today that
Israel May soon launch its ground
offensive on
Gaza I mean this is what everybody is of
course waiting for the timing is unclear
there will be an element of surprise
still although everybody's expecting it
um it seems to be rather imminent but we
don't know uh the Army said that they
plan to implement a wide range of
operational offensive plans and The
Wider ground operation they said that in
a statement um it is certainly also made
more difficult by the fact that there
are over 100 hostages being held in Gaza
so um it is not uh you know just going
in for a ground operation but it's not
just the South that Israelis are looking
at also looking up north because in
recent days there have been a lot of
exchanges of fire also with Hezbollah
again yesterday and also now with Syria
and we understand that uh the U the US
is sending another carrier that's quite
unusual uh to the Eastern Mediterranean
to support Israel again also to show and
to probably in a message to other actors
here in the region not to take part in
this war deterrent uh Tanya almost half
the gazen population as you well know
residents in the north has been told to
relocate in what we all keep reminding
viewers is one of the world's most
congested places now we hear many can't
flee South into Egypt because the Rafer
Crossing there is closed one of the
reasons why the UN and Aid group say
humanitarian crisis is looming there any
relief coming for those
Palestinians
well we understand that there are trucks
on the Egyptian side for the moment
they're not passing but the whole
situation in Gaza is deteriorating by
the hour I had the chance to talk to one
of our colleagues there another fellow
journalist in Gaza who's also himself on
the move he is from Gaza City and moved
down to the southern part and he was
telling me how difficult it is you know
he still had some fuel in his car but
there's not much gasoline left at the
the stations they refer from one to the
next for people who have a car those who
don't have transport they go by foot
others go on Donkey cards the water
situation is a problem there's no
electricity so there are all kind of
problems and we heard from who also
warning that they cannot it's impossible
to evacuate those hospitals uh because
to move those patients it's really
problematic so we also understand that
there are efforts to try to get out some
Palestinians who have a dual citizen
Citizenship or foreigners with a foreign
passport but as of last night they were
still stranded in the raer crossing as
well as the aid that's supposed to come
in but you also have to understand you
also have to be able then once the Aid
comes in that it can be distributed and
with this very weak infrastructure at
the moment that there is with all these
problems this will be very very
difficult to say it's a dynamic
situation would be a gross
understatement that is a Tanya Kramer in
ashdod many many thanks
Margaret Harris from the World Health
Organization described what's being done
to help civilians in Gaza so we're doing
everything we can including condemning
the um evacuation orders for the 22
hospitals in the north of Gaza um the
northern part of Gaza that have been
given repeated orders by the Israelis to
remove they cannot they're treating more
than 2,000
inpatients uh many of them are severely
ill their lives are hanging in the
balance as it is and they certainly
can't be moved and even if they could
there's no capacity in the southern
hospitals they're already completely
overstretched we are also verifying and
condemning attacks on health we are
seeing that we've verified at least 41
attacks on health that have led to the
loss of life of 11 healthcare workers on
duty we've learned of another four who
lost their lives just recent in the last
24 hours we are verifying those um and
we know of 16 injuries but the critical
thing and the thing we can't do is get
the supplies in all the medicines are
running out there's desperate need for
pain relief for instance with all these
people with injuries just imagine trying
to treat a child with Burns who's crying
in pain and you can't do anything for
them we have the supplies ready they're
waiting 20 km away but we need the
borders open we need to be able to to
deliver them so on the Egyptian side we
are told it can be open but it uh it is
apparently not yet safe um too open uh
on the other side uh that it is still an
unsafe Crossing uh but we have certainly
our director General Dr Tedros adnam
gabrus had a meeting with the Egyptian
president some days ago and there was
agreement that they would open the
border for our supplies to go in but it
has not been possible to bring them
in other developments gazan officials
say Israel's air strikes have killed
more than 2,300 people hamas's Terror
attacks claimed more than 1300 Israelis
the US has sent a second aircraft
carrier to the Eastern Mediterranean to
support Israel and prevent any regional
conflict Israel's Communications
Minister once alzer's local Bureau shut
down having accused the katab based news
channel of incitement let's bring in
DW's senior International correspondent
funny Fatar who's in Jerusalem funny
it's now been a week since hamas's
terrorist attacks what's the climate in
Jerusalem right
now if you have never been to Jerusalem
you may get the impression that there is
a sense of normality because there more
people out on the street but that's
nothing compared to what life looked
like here uh more than a week ago before
this terrorist attack was Unleashed by
hamus militants on Saturday killing uh
hundreds of people and abducting at
least an estimated 150 people still
unclear as we have just heard in the
report what exactly is happening to them
when it comes to the atmosphere all
around and even just the impact on
israelian society that's really early to
tell one has to understand that prior to
all of this this Society has been much
much polarized when it comes to the uh
domestic government here that's not
going to disappear overnight what I do
see have that people talk less and less
actually about domestic politics and
rather they are united uh both in their
grief uh in their anger as well how it
could come to the situation that so many
people in Israel have been killed but
also increasingly questions are being
also raised with regard to Israel's
moral responsibility when it comes to
people in Palestine in in in Gaza Strip
and when it comes to the Palestinian
people people are asking themselves here
why is it that the entire Gaza region
has to PID the prize for the actions of
the Hamas militants so basically for the
actions of a few and as we have seen
there by my colleague maanda filing the
report from Tel Aviv uh people are
asking for the release of their family
members they are asking for the
government to pay attention making sure
that they're not
becoming to say so a collateral damage
as uh Israel is is amassing the forces
there alongside the Gaza border ready to
go in ready to strike and unclear what
that's going to mean for ordinary
citizens but as well as the hostages uh
that are inside in Gaza St
funny very quickly we have less than
half a minute while the US Secretary of
State is on a lightning tour through the
Middle East in hopes of limiting the
conflict Washington has dispatched the
second aircraft carrier to the Eastern
Mediterranean what's the message the US
is trying to send
here briefly deterrence making sure that
for example Iran or Iran backs Hezbollah
the militant group in Lebanon does not
get involved that Syria does not get
involved in this conflict making sure
that there's deescalation before this
conflict is widening and even though
we're hearing that security state
blinkin has met Crown Prince uh Abdullah
in in Saudi Arabia it is completely
unclear whether he can achieve this
deescalation DW's funny
forar